I got a question from the illustrious
activist extraordinaire Joey carb strong
I mentioned that in some my earlier
videos I dealt with this issue of
personal purity consciously and
unconsciously shaping the way people
approach veganism the way they preach
veganism the way they organize engaging
vegan activism and that in the past I'd
made videos criticizing what he asked me
where the videos were what the title the
video was I couldn't find oh my god I
got over seven hundred and forty videos
on this channel I actually asked one of
my fans I sent an email to one of my
supporters on patreon asking do you
remember where I talked about this he
may get back to me may not but you know
that's when it's time to make a new
video on a topic even if you you think
maybe it came up in a podcast maybe it
came up in a conversation maybe it came
up between minutes eighteen and thirty
two in a two-hour long video I don't
know but we're talking about it now this
could be a relatively succinct it to the
point video here with my girlfriend
Melissa can you can jump in at any time
your interest because you've never had
this problem you approached veganism in
terms of ecology
first and foremost and you kind of
weaned yourself off recycling and don't
waste electricity model of veganism into
uh you know activist based so that's
totally different people approached it
in a spiritual way I mean consciously
and unconsciously some people come into
veganism and they're not a way or I mean
they may just have a background in
Sunday school they may have been a
mainstream Christianity and bring that
into veganism they may have a background
in mainstream yoga you know watered-down
Hinduism for white people and bring that
if it they're bringing in a lot of
different presuppositions that may come
in unexamined into how they think about
veganism how they put it into practice
how they try to achieve how do they try
to either create a vegan movement on a
small scale or a vegan world on a large
scale or manage their own non vegan
family and all these other challenges
the pursuit of personal purity we
encounter first and foremost through the
refusal to buy things the boycott and
the boycott mentality or huge part of
veganism and it's really easy for people
to just take
you know the boycott of meat and dairy
and then extend it to more and more
things well at the same time the logic
of purity is kind of internally
extending further and further through
the refusal to be morally complicit in
purchasing or participating in any of
these things or activities that would in
a sense taint your soul taint your body
taint who you are so I mean you know
inevitably of course veganism involves
the refusal to buy things I'm not
criticising that in this video however
it's very easy for people to in an
unexamined way slip into saying okay I
don't just refuse to buy dairy milk
I also refused to buy palm oil well is
there really a criterion that separates
palm oil and palm oil plantations from
rubber and rubber plantations and
exactly the same climate impacting
exactly the same animals including
Iran's hands and various tropical birds
and what have you if you cut down the
forest to grow rubber including a latex
rubber how is that different from
cutting down the forest to grow palm oil
either palm oil is vegan or rubber
likewise either is or isn't vegan with
by the same criteria right and I think
there are some people even it's only a
few watching this video who would say
yeah they also refused to buy rubber
they refused to buy car tires and they
refused to buy condoms because they also
regard rubber as immoral in the same way
of course some people refuse to buy
diamonds obviously in a sense diamonds
are vegan in a sense referee unit says
pavo's vegan but they're extending the
same logic of the boycott the boycott
mentality of the refusal to buy things
outward further and further and is the
logic of their own personal purity of
them were meaning untouched by the type
of moral compromise that is involved in
mining diamonds farming and producing
rubber or producing palm oil out of you
know starting off with a forest we're
presuming and clear-cutting the forest
to grow to grow palm oil and then the
the farming process thereafter all the
fruits and vegetables we buy are
produced through firstly destructing the
destruction of natural habitat and then
you know constantly maintaining a vigil
where you kill potential and actual
Verma
animals that would come in and he you
know eat whatever it is you're growing
so on durian farms you know they do
shoot monkeys here in the tropics here
and said live here in the tropics so you
know if you have a durian farm here and
monkeys come over the fence and come in
and try to eat your crops from durian
farmers have to shoot monkeys more often
feral pigs you know get into all fruit
farms but including you know these
chocolate and they shoot feral pigs so
fruit farming in that sense directly
they shoot large mammals of course
insects rodents when you're talking
about you know I mentioned this a
million times I have a video called
wheat hills and it's like well look
wheat farming don't kid yourself people
kill groundhogs and those kinds of
mammals to produce it right so my point
is here in an unexamined sense
some people may present that as a purely
political and ethical stance that they
were extending their boycott further and
further they may refuse to buy a
cellphone because of the you know ethics
of how the cellphone has many very
understandable but nothing to do with
veganism they refuse to buy one thing
after another extend this up further and
further what may or what they may not
present overtly is that this is at the
same time extending the the culture of
personal purity where I am the kind of
person who would never own the blank
well I'm the kind of person who would
never compromise in ways x y&z now you
can read many books I've reviewed a
couple of books that take this more
starkly the puritanical and spiritual
view there are some vegans room they're
not in the closet about it they really
do present this in religious clothing as
a belief in their own personal purity I
think maybe it's more difficult to
psychological disturbing I mean another
example I have spoken I years ago I have
debated with a vegan who said that she
opposed all pornography because she
regarded men exploiting women in
pornography this was her reasoning as
completely equivalent to human beings
exploiting cows in the production of
milk now as a bizarrely sexist statement
in its way but this is this is actually
what I challenge to this I propose where
I said Oh what about gay pornography
where it's two men voluntarily filming
themselves having sex
so how was that equivalent to and she
was stumped she had taken the logic of
veganism she extended the logic of the
boycott the boycott mentality and it
seems I think there was a real sense of
personal purity there cuz I saw her own
writing that you know she was too pure
to ever watch pornography or something
and she had extended it several steps
from rational
into irrational and also I mean it is
actually kind of philosophically
profoundly disturbing what if what sets
is this the same as a dairy cow being
held in a steel cage on a concrete floor
you know and in a shed where they never
see the sky and living its whole life
you know producing no fuming so it's a
really bizarre it's the kind of uh yeah
so in but look I'm saying honestly
dealing with people face to face fellow
activists fellow vegans people with with
good intentions they do it's it's a kind
of allegorical reasoning you know they
take one principle that makes sense the
core ideas of veganism and then they
kind of look at other ethical political
situations as allegory is for one
another you know I'm saying that they
construe a kind of parallelism between
them and then before you know it you
can't wear condoms you can't use rubber
tires
you can't cook with palm oil and you
can't watch you can't even film yourself
you didn't even feel yourself and
produce you can't even do make your own
photography you can't you can't you
can't use wooden furniture yeah right
good one yeah yeah so sit just sit on
the floor you know that's for your own
and again see this is your house which
is obviously going to be made with
materials that are problematic I'm like
what right what are you gonna do live in
a mud hut well you can you can become a
Buddhist monk and live in a cave I've
met Buddhist monks who live in caves so
that really exists okay that really
that's an option that's an option for
you but right but this is how I
challenge people I think some people
they would present that they say yeah
don't buy wooden furniture wooden
furniture cuts down the forest and
destroys app that kills the animals but
would they argue that would they reason
it
in terms of personal purity would they
say I'm too pure to sit on a wooden
chair therefore I'm gonna sit on the
floor or would they present that to you
as if their refusal to buy wooden
furniture really is a boycott really is
impacting the outside world as it as if
quote I am saving animals live as close
quote I think the latter is a delusion
for the former people think they're
saving animals lives whether by refusing
to buy palm oil or even by refusing to
buy meat and they're not so that's gonna
come up again in a future video where I
deal further with Tobias lien arts book
it is a delusion in a capitalist society
if you and I refuse to buy meat actually
the impact is that we make meat cheaper
for meat eaters we simply lower the
price that's fundamental principles of
supply and demand
a boycott doesn't the boycott of meat
does not save animals lives it actually
makes me cheaper for the people who
continue to eat meat and that is it that
is a profound and important issue within
Buddhist surprised me within vegan
dogmatix so this you with in Buddhist
dogmatix too though I'm talking a lot
about Buddhist ethics if you want to
save animals lives you can climb a tree
and get a can of a tree that's saving an
animal's life but actually simply by
boycotting means simply refusing to buy
meat yourself even in our thousands as
vegans we don't save animals lives but I
would say the justification of saving
animals lives of not cutting down the
trees to make the wood you're kidding
yourself
it's self-deception the reality is you
think you're too pure to sit on wood and
you know I got I got love for all the
players in the game you know what I mean
I'm not here saying that I hate vegans
for thinking this way I can sympathize
it's a natural like I sympathize that
mode of thought that says okay I'm not
gonna buy meat therefore I'm not gonna
buy palm oil it really is it is in the
true sense or it's sympathetic to me I
understand these are people trying to
make the world a better place and
they're trying to become better people
themselves but becoming a better person
yourself has to be linked to outcomes
doing things that make it real
difference in the world taking on
responsibilities that do damage going to
City Hall and
you know actually writing new
legislation has none of this aura of
personal period about it but it makes a
real difference in the world right and
by contrast you may imagine you're
making a real difference in the world
and getting deeper and deeper into an
ethic and an aesthetic of personal
purity I mentioned recently when you buy
airplane tickets they're killing animals
if you want to you can refuse to ever
buy airplane tickets again that's not
making it positive the difference of the
world if you care about outcomes you
have to roll up your sleeves and make
compromises you have to sit on wooden
chairs and buy airplane tickets to get
to City Hall to get to Parliament to get
to the Senate to make that political
difference that's gonna have real
outcomes in the world if you want to be
a better person and you want to have
some ego about what you've accomplished
that's fine but that can't be based on
less and less it can't be based on
reducing inward the scope of what you
consume and I think you know expanding
outward this illusion of your own of
your own personal purity managed to blow
your mind you think should stuff alright
under 15 minutes it is what it is
hitting me up on patreon hit me up on
Twitter see me when you see me